God bless you.
Thank you for singing and always enjoy hearing you guys.
Well, good morning again.
It is.
Awesome to have all of you.
It's good to hear you sing through the music and all I get spoken to that way and sung to and I just enjoy that.
So I pray that you have already had a wonderful time in the Lord this morning that you felt the presence of the Holy spirit in your life.
And now today we're headed to the book of Romans.
So if you would, you can go ahead and you can turn over there.
Romans, we're going to be taking a look at chapter one.
We're going to look at just a few verses here, verses 16.
and 17 and we'll be looking some other places to you, but this is going to be our base text this morning.
So turn there.
If you would, you see the title of the message, the unwavering gospel of Christ.
And it is an unwavering gospel that doesn't change, doesn't the gospel of Jesus Christ is the same.
So as you're turning there, I want to remind you over the last couple of Sundays, what we have been talking about.
We have been talking about vision.
Everybody say vision.
been talking about vision and in the first mission message of the year I mentioned to you that felt led to be more involved as a church in evangelism.
efforts.
Anybody remember me saying that?
It's what we want to try to do, be a little more involved in evangelism efforts.
I feel strongly about this.
I do.
I feel like that this is where we are as a church.
I believe that with the efforts of our church family as a whole, we can make a tremendous difference with our efforts in Aiken County and beyond.
And I do believe that we can do that if we are intentional about sharing the gospel
of Jesus Christ.
So this morning, these two verses from the apostle Paul give us some critical instruction as to what the gospel actually is and how we go about talking about it.
Knowing more about it, knowing more about what it is will help us to share it with better understanding and also help us to share it with more urgency to unbelievers that are right here in our own backyard.
So if you found your place, stand with me.
If you would, we're going to read verses 16 and 17 of Romans chapter one.
Got to say it.
Amen.
Here is what Paul had to say here in the Word of God.
It says this, for I am not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes first to the Jew, then to the Gentile.
For in the Gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed, a righteousness that is by faith from first to last.
Just as it is written, the righteous will live by faith.
Let's pray together over this.
Lord, thank you once again for this passage of Scripture that we have.
Well, we know that down there is so much deepness here.
So we just pray, Lord, that you just help us as we strive to take a look at this closer.
this morning.
So Lord, we just ask that you're glorified.
Again, we ask to make much of you less of us.
Help us follow the magnifying glorify your name through our efforts this day.
In Jesus, we pray and all God's people said, Amen.
You may be seated.
Thank you.
Perhaps in your daily devotion, you can take a few moments and read the first 15 verses of this chapter.
I would encourage you to do that.
It kind of helps us get to where this is.
It's good information that helps us arrive at verses 16 and 17.
So write that down somewhere.
Make sure that you take it and take a look at the first 15 verses that Paul wrote.
in there.
You see here that Paul had been trying to get to Rome.
His journey was to get to Rome, which was a pagan empire.
We know that pretty much everything worldwide back in those days had to be run through Rome, the Roman government.
So he'd been deterred.
He'd been delayed.
There were so many different things that happened to him on his journey as he was headed that way.
He had been imprisoned in Philippi.
He'd been chased out of places like Thessalonica.
He was smuggled out of Damascus.
He was smuggled out of Berea.
I mean, this guy really had a hard time with things that was going on.
Of course, he was in prison in Philippine.
He was declared a lawbreaker over in a blasphemer in Jerusalem.
And then above all else, he was stoned and left for dead in a place called Weistra.
So we know that Paul went through all kinds of different things.
to get to his journey here.
So he certainly had his challenges sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ.
So through all of this, he still pressed on.
Everybody say pressed on.
He still pressed on with the gospel.
Isn't that what we should be doing?
Pressing on with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
That's what we're called to do.
He remained undeterred.
He remained unintimidated by the religious leaders of that time, which was a tall task during that time.
He remained still eager to share the gospel and preach the gospel even in this pagan center of this city of Rome.
So this call on Paul's life and his desire to see men changed with the gospel is why he began verse 16 with these words.
He said, I'm not ashamed of it.
I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
So Paul considered it an honor.
He considered it an obligation to be able to teach and to be able to preach and an honor to do that.
Even though that there was heavy opposition, he still wanted to not be ashamed of the gospel in order to preach it on and on and on.
Well, there was heavy criticism.
We know this.
There were many reasons for Paul to be intimidated.
There were many reasons for him to be disheartened, but he was never ashamed for any reason to tell anyone about Jesus Christ.
For all of us, I believe that there's much that we can learn from that one statement.
You see, the gospel of Jesus Christ is the only way that has been provided for us to be able to obtain heaven.
That's the only way.
For the Christian in today's world, we must realize, listen, it's a pretty serious sin to be ashamed of our Lord.
It's also pretty difficult sometimes to avoid that sin.
We're human beings.
There are times in our lives when we might be presented an opportunity to share the gospel and we just don't.
Sometimes as Christians, we might find it uncomfortable whenever we try and speak up for Christ.
To the unsaved person, I think a lot of times it comes to our mind that the gospel is offensive.
It's unattractive.
To the lost person, it is uninteresting and even unnatural.
And in all of these things, the reason for this is because the gospel exposes them.
It exposes their sin.
It exposes their wickedness.
And even more so than that, it exposes the fact that they're lost and without
Jesus.
Now for you and me, the gospel of Jesus Christ is what we would consider to be good news.
Matter of fact, it's even defined that way.
The good news is the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Now for someone who doesn't know Jesus as their Savior, they may see it as a bit of bad news.
Why?
Because it tells them that they need to make changes in their life.
Sometimes they might even argue that they have no need for the gospel.
Everything's going okay.
It could be uncomfortable for the Christian to have these conversations.
So we might fall into that snare of not witnessing just to avoid an uncomfortable conversation.
We could ask ourselves, is that because we're ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ?
We might find it somewhat difficult to leave the safety net of our church fellowship cross the line into evangelism where it might be uncomfortable.
Sometimes we might find ourselves in that position.
And this is what Paul did.
Paul cross that line.
He had tremendous passion about seeing lost people come to know Jesus and becoming saved people.
He was not concerned in the least about his own personal needs.
His own comfort was not of concern to him.
Under heavy ridicule and under heavy opposition, he did not ever compromise his position on sharing the gospel.
He knew that the gospel was the only way to make a change in other people's lives.
So understanding the gospel so that we can share it is Paul's goal in these two verses.
He was not ashamed of the gospel, no matter what it might cost him.
And in these two verses he gives us four things that are critical for us to understand.
So let me line this out for you.
Paul, first of all, tells us that he isn't ashamed of the gospel.
Why?
Because first of all, the gospel is the power of God.
It's only the power of God, listen, that can save anyone from their sin.
It is only his power.
It is only the power of God that can give anyone eternal and everlasting life.
People far and wide have a desire to make changes about themselves Some folks might want to lose weight.
Some of us maybe need to gain weight.
That's not me Maybe for the ladies a change in your makeup or your hair products helps you feel a little bit better about yourself for us men Well, I can't really seem to think of an illustration that'll help us here with the guys But I'm sure we want to change something about ourselves.
Amen.
I Heard a couple
Maybe we want to look better, maybe we want to feel better, maybe for the guys we want to handle our finances a little better.
We think about these things.
We have more responsibility sometimes.
But if we take time to ponder this, mostly all of us could think of something that we would like to make a change about ourselves in.
Television commercials show us all kinds of things and it tries to convince us of things that we need to make changes in our lives.
They're doing their jobs.
They're trying to sell their products.
all in the name of feeling better about yourself.
Sometimes these sales pitches or these schemes are successful in making us feel better on the outside, but none of that can help us make an inward change.
None of it can.
Those outward things have zero power to change anything deep within the soul of man.
None of those things can help us get right with Jesus Christ.
I'm reminded
of the verse in the book of Jeremiah chapter 13 verse 23.
It asks a question here.
It says, can an Ethiopian change his skin?
Or we've heard this kind of leopard change his spots.
We've heard that part of the verse.
Neither can you do good.
You who are accustomed to doing evil.
You see, you and I do not have the power to make a spiritual change.
We cannot change the sinful nature that we were born with.
So how does it change?
Well, it's only through the power of God.
It is only His power that is able to overcome this sinful nature of man and give us a spiritual everlasting life.
Now, there are many in our churches today that believe, and in fact, many churches has taught this way that our works is what makes a spiritual change in us.
You ever heard that?
Listen, we can't be saved because of our works.
That's not biblical.
We can't be saved by being just part of a church.
We can't be saved by any ritual that we might practice.
We can't be saved by anything that we do in the name of the Lord.
We can't be saved that way, not by our works.
When you stop and think about this even for just a second, we go back to Old Testament law.
We can't even be saved by keeping the Old Testament law.
The law was not given to save men.
The law was given so that it would reveal our sin so that it would drive us to the saving grace and the power of Jesus Christ.
Paul also reminded the people of Corinth about this.
He said this in first Corinthians chapter one, verse 18.
And some people think this for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing.
You ever heard it put that way?
But to us who are being saved, what is it?
It's the power of the Almighty God.
Another thing that Paul tells us here, secondly, is he tells us that we need the power of God for the gospel.
But what does that power of God do?
Well, it does something.
It brings us salvation.
All it takes for us is to look around to see the tremendous power of God.
Amen.
We see the snow falling today.
We didn't make that.
God did that.
Perhaps the greatest of all the power of God is that the bringing of salvation to anyone who is willing to receive it.
We've been watching The Chosen on Sunday nights.
We've seen their interpretation of Jesus healing the sick.
You'll remember that.
He's restored sight, mended broken bones.
He's calm to see.
We've seen him raise folks from the dead as they are following the line of the Scripture.
as this kind of comes off the pages to life for us.
And all of these miracles are incredible.
We never want to discount any of that.
That is Jesus in his work.
They show that he's the Messiah.
They show that he has dominion over each and everything in this world.
But salvation is the power of God.
Listen, what does it do?
It rescues people.
That's what salvation does.
It rescues anyone who will reach out and take it.
We could be rescued from this ultimate penalty that we deserve, that is created by our sin.
Salvation rescues those who accept it from eternal torment and eternal separation from God.
Salvation is given freely to anyone who will accept it.
Isn't that good to know?
The Gospel of Luke chapter 19, verse 10 says this,
The son of man, what did he come to do?
Well, he come to seek and save the lost.
Matthew chapter one, verse 21 says that she will give birth to a son.
And you were to give him the name Jesus because he will what?
Save people from their sin.
Let's go on Romans chapter five, verse nine says that since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more will be saved from God's wrath through him?
Paul said in Colossians chapter one, verses 13 and 14, for he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the sun he loves, in whom we have all redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
Listen to the power of God brings salvation that cannot come from anywhere else.
Paul also goes on to tell us and explained to us through the power of God through salvation,
into whose salvation is offered, how do we do this?
Well, we obtain it through faith, he says.
Salvation is offered to all who will believe in faith.
As human beings that live in this world today, we put our trust in multiple things every day, don't we?
We put our faith in all kinds of things.
We have many acts nearing every day that requires faith on our part.
We put our faith in our transportation that it will get us where we need to go.
We do this.
We put our faith in the word of a family member.
We put our faith every day in many things that we normally don't even give it a second thought.
Life as it is requires a natural type of faith, doesn't it?
Paul here, however, is speaking about a spiritual faith.
One of the most popular verses of Scripture comes from another one of Paul's epistles.
If he's in chapter two, verses eight and nine tells us this,
For it is by grace you have been saved through what?
Through faith.
And this is not from who?
Not from ourselves.
It's the what?
The gift of God, not by works so that no one can boast.
So what are we then?
We are God's handy work.
We're created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do.
You see, good works,
It's not the reason for our salvation.
It is the product of our salvation.
Salvation is simple.
We have it because we take it on faith that Jesus is who he says he is.
It's not about baptism.
It's not about communion.
It's not about morals.
It's not about coming to church.
It is only about believing that Jesus Christ is who he says he is.
and that He came and He is our Lord and Savior and we accept that on faith.
You and I don't qualify spiritually to save ourselves.
There's nothing we can do about it.
It is only through the faith that we have in Jesus Christ and His finished work on the cross that we are saved.
That is the only way.
Paul tells us here that salvation is available to everyone.
There are no racial barriers.
Did you notice this?
There's no racial barriers.
There are no ethnic barriers.
Doesn't matter where you live.
Doesn't matter where you came from.
Doesn't matter who your mama is.
Doesn't matter who your grandmother is.
It only matters whether or not you believe in Jesus Christ.
That's the only criteria.
He mentioned the Jew.
He mentioned the Greek to show that there are no eliminations.
Everyone through faith can have salvation full and free.
So through the power of God that brings salvation to all who have faith, we also see here that the righteousness of God is revealed.
Look with me again at verse 17.
For in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed, a righteousness that is by faith from first to last, just as it is written, the righteous will live by faith.
And it's a song that I remembered.
Maybe some of you will remember this as well.
And it's an old Southern gospel song that I love so much.
It says that prayer is the key to heaven, but faith unlocks the door.
You ever heard that?
If you haven't, you should Google that.
It's good.
You see, our faith is what activates God's power that brings forth His salvation.
And through this act, we will see the righteousness of God revealed through us.
Paul told us more about this in his epistle to
the Philippian people, Philippians chapter three, verses seven through nine have this to say, but whatever were gains to me, I now consider loss for the sake of Christ.
What is more, I consider everything lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things.
He goes on to say that I consider them garbage.
I may gain Christ and be found in Him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith.
Now this says a lot to say this.
Someone who is a true believer in Christ is made righteous and they will live in their faith all their life.
Faith is a way of life.
And we are made righteous through our faith salvation by this grace of God that only he can give working through man's faith in him.
It's always been God's plan for all of us.
Our faith in the Lord will help us to share the unwavering gospel of Jesus Christ.
His gospel never changes.
His gospel never wavers.
His gospel never falters.
If for all of us, we should also be unwavering in sharing our faith that leads to the gospel of Jesus Christ.
So how do we do this?
We should evaluate ourselves and ask the question to ourselves.
Look at the mirror.
Have a heart checkup, have a checkup from the neck up.
and ask ourselves this, what kind of witness do I want to be for Jesus?
What I want to do here?
Do I want to exercise a sometimes faith?
Or do I want to be as unwavering in my faith as I can possibly be?
The Lord has given us all the tools that we need.
We have our own testimony in which no one else can ever take that from you.
We also have the Word of God as it stands alone as the supreme divine Word and the authority on all things.
Yes, the ways of the world might cause us to stumble.
They might cause doubt.
They might cause confusion.
But the gospel of Jesus Christ, listen, it's the same yesterday, today and forever.
Sharing this with friends that are lost and without Jesus.
It's what you and I are supposed to be doing.
Amen.
So let us not waver in sharing this gospel that Jesus came to earth.
That he died a cruel death on the cross to save us from our sins.
But that's not the end of the story.
He rose again three days later.
He lives today.
The power of the Holy Spirit lives through us.
So let me challenge you today, church.
and all who are listening.
In 2026, let's make part of our vision to be sharing the unwavering gospel of Jesus Christ.
Every head bowed, every eye closed.
This morning maybe you're here.
You've been thinking about your part in that.
That how you can share the gospel
More.
Now you can be more clear in your sharing of the gospel.
Understanding just what the gospel is.
All of these are things that we have talked about this morning.
Listen.
We're not called to sit on the bench.
We're called to be in the game.
God has given us everything that we need to be a starter for Him.
So I pray today that your evangelistic thoughts are now engaging and that you want to be more about telling others about Jesus, not being ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
I don't believe any of us intend to be ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
I don't think that's ever the intent.
And I believe that we miss opportunities to tell people about Jesus because we might be concerned about our surrender.
Don't fall into that snare, friend.
I would ask you this morning to submit yourself to the Lord and submit yourself to the gospel of Jesus Christ and telling others about Him.
If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior,
I invite you to come.
There's nothing like walking this aisle coming and taking me by the hand and saying, pastor, I don't know Jesus, but I want to know him.
I want to be saved from my sin.
I don't want to die today and go to hell.
I want this eternal security.
The Bible teaches me about being Jesus.
That's you today.
Come.
I'll be glad to lead you to Jesus.
Our altar is open this morning.
Maybe there's someone you'd like to come and pray for.
Feel free to come today.
As you stand to your feet right now, you come this morning as the Lord leads.
to thank you for being here this morning and braving the weather and coming to be part of our services.
Still doing anything?
Can you see anything?
I don't see anything now.
We were getting ready for the service and I looked up and I could see it, the big flakes that were coming down.
I could see it through the window there and it was just absolutely beautiful to see.
But I don't see it now, so maybe it's moved out.
But be careful as you drive.
I know the roads are wet and hopefully they're not going to become slick.
It's the day
moves forward.
But thank you so much for being here.
We will be meeting this evening.
If you feel like you can make that, we would love to have you.
And if not, we certainly understand with these kind of conditions, it's a little harder to get out.
So, become when you can.
We would love to have you here.
But God bless you.
Thank you so much.
Our brother Joe.